= Installation of the latest version of SE-PostgreSQL =
This document describes the way to install SE-PostgreSQL onto Fedora 7 system.

== Preparation & Download ==
You have to set up bare Fedora 7 system, and update them.
In Fedora 7 system, the minimum install option contains all required packages.

All SE-PostgreSQL related packages are available here:
{{{
http://code.google.com/p/sepgsql/downloads/list
}}}

The latest version of SE-PostgreSQL, base and targeted security policy are necessary to install.
 * sepostgresql-8.2.4-0.351.alpha.fc7.i386.rpm
 * selinux-policy-2.6.4-14.sepgsql.fc7.noarch.rpm
 * selinux-policy-targeted-2.6.4-14.sepgsql.fc7.noarch.rpm

== Applying RPM packages ==
Apply all SE-PostgreSQL packages at once, as follows:
{{{
rpm -Uvh selinux-policy-2.6.4-14.sepgsql.fc7.noarch.rpm \
         selinux-policy-targeted-2.6.4-14.sepgsql.fc7.noarch.rpm \
         sepostgresql-8.2.4-0.351.alpha.fc7.i386.rpm
}}}
If you have installed selinux-policy-devel package, you should upgrade the package in same time, bacause it depends on selinux-policy.

Currently, we don't provide selinux-policy-strict and selinux-policy-mls packages, bacause we have not evaluated them enough. If you need those packages, you can generate it from source RPM package (selinux-policy-2.6.4-14.sepgsql.fc7.src.rpm). 

Please confirm what SE-PostgreSQL and its security policy are installed without any trouble.

You can use *semodule* to confirm installed binary security policy modules, as follows:
You will be able to found sepostgresql's one.
{{{
[root@masu ~]# semodule -l
amavis  1.2.1
amtu    1.0.23
      :
    <snip>
      :
screen  1.1.0
*sepostgresql    0.351*
slocate 1.4.1
      :
    <snip>
      :
zabbix  1.0.0
[root@masu ~]#
}}}

== Setup SE-PostgreSQL ==
You have to execute */etc/init.d/sepostgresql* with *initdb* command to initialize a database cluster under */var/lib/sepgsql*. Please confirm the directory is not exist or empty.
{{{
[root@masu ~]# /etc/init.d/sepostgresql initdb
Initializing database:                           [  OK  ]
[root@masu ~]# 
}}}
Then, you can start sepostgresql server. SE-PostgreSQL works with *sepgsql* user on the operating system, so you can create database users as DBA or others on *sepgsql* account at first. This user is created at installation automatically.

In the following example, we create a database role *kaigai* as a DBA.
{{{
[root@masu ~]# /etc/init.d/sepostgresql start
Starting sepostgresql service:                   [  OK  ]
[root@masu ~]# su - sepgsql
-bash-3.2$ createuser kaigai
Shall the new role be a superuser? (y/n) y
CREATE ROLE
-bash-3.2$
}}}

== Enjoy SE-PostgreSQL ==
SE-PostgreSQL package does not contain a front-end program.
You can use *psql* command in postgresql package, if necessary.
{{{
[kaigai@masu ~]$ psql postgres
Welcome to psql 8.2.4, the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

Type:  \copyright for distribution terms
       \h for help with SQL commands
       \? for help with psql commands
       \g or terminate with semicolon to execute query
       \q to quit

postgres=# select security_context, * from drink;
NOTICE:  SELinux: denied { select } scontext=system_u:system_r:unconfined_t
        tcontext=user_u:object_r:sepgsql_table_t:Classified tclass=tuple
NOTICE:  SELinux: denied { select } scontext=system_u:system_r:unconfined_t
        tcontext=user_u:object_r:sepgsql_table_t:Classified tclass=tuple
         security_context          | id | name  | price | alcohol
-----------------------------------+----+-------+-------+---------
 system_u:object_r:sepgsql_table_t |  1 | coke  |   110 | f
 system_u:object_r:sepgsql_table_t |  2 | tea   |   120 | f
 system_u:object_r:sepgsql_table_t |  3 | juice |   150 | f
 system_u:object_r:sepgsql_table_t |  4 | water |   120 | f
(4 rows)

postgres=#
}}}
